# Predictive Maintenance in Hydropower Plants: A case study of Valves and Servomotors

This repository contains code used in my masters thesis: Predictive Maintenance in Hydropower Plants: A Case Study of Valves and Servomotors.
This thesis marks the end of my studies within Environmental Physics and Renewable Energy at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences (NMBU).
For more information, please contact the author at: ernesc@proton.me


## Abstract
Digitalization has opened the opportunity for a fourth industrial revolution and the hydropower industry is taking charge into enabling digitalization in their operation. There are a lot of studies within predictive maintenance, however there is, to our information no studies on system specific predictive maintenance for hydropower. To bridge this gap, the idea for system specific, Machine Learning driven Predictive Maintenance is explored. Two systems are chosen as a use-case for this thesis: valves and servomotors. With the increasing amount of intermittent renewable energy resources entering the power system, the need for flexibility in the power grid is unequivocal. Valves and servomotors are key components of hydropower control and thus will play a pivotal role in securing flexibility to the grid.

The fist system assessed is the main valve. In order to make this analysis easily applicable, the data that is already being collected at Nore 1 hydropower plant is analysed in order to assess the possibility of maintenance prediction from limited data. Unfortunately, this did not achieve decent results for the data collected from the valve sensors. It is hard to predict the future when one only has one variable, in this case the opening and closing time-lag of the valve. However, this thesis presents a framework for data collection that allows the use of Machine Learning for predictive maintenance. Various sensors are suggested based on several published work on predictive maintenance.

The second system assessed is the servomotor that controls the guiding vanes in a Francis turbine. Servomotors are key components of hydropower control. Due to the data not being collected by Statkraft at the time of the study, this data was provided by one of Statkrafts suppliers. By making use of the historical data of pressure as a function of the piston position, a boundary for where new values should be expected is computed by making use of One Class Support Vector Machine. Another embodiment of this case is presented where force is given as a function of piston position, which yielded better results. When new values are being measured, the data is presented as a bullet chart that visualizes the distance of new values compared to the boundary computed by the One Class SVM. This tool could easily be applied to other servomotors which perform other tasks such as controlling water injection to a Pelton turbine or opening and closing of the valve, whether they are butterfly or ball valves.
Suggestions on further data collection are presented in order to make use of more data for the use of Machine Learning in Predictive Maintenance. 
